A backtest is said to be valid or
admissible if it satisfies at least the following two conditions.
The first condition is that the profit calculation is realistic,
which means that the simulated profit and loss could actually have been achieved by
trading the same instruments in the same way that the backtest code implies.
The second condition is that the strategy construction does not
benefit from look-ahead bias or from hindsight.
In other words, at the historical dates in the backtest,
a hypothetical trader would have possessed all of the knowledge
necessary to have actually implemented the strategy on those days.
There are many kinds of mistakes which would render a backtest invalid or inadmissible.
We will give a few examples.
Using a model for trading costs which
underestimates the true cost is a violation of condition one.
Often, this means that whole categories of assets need to be excluded because they are so
illiquid that they would be impossible to trade
at any significant size without prohibitive costs.
Similarly, ignoring categories of costs such as
financing or taxes also violates condition one.
Moreover, the backtest should not assume that it would have been able to
trade in volumes that are large relative to the actual volume,
and it should not assume that it could have executed
during the day at the close price of that day.
Yet another example of a violation of one is assuming
the backtest could borrow more shares than what actually available to borrow.
The know hindsight condition two is even more subtle and it's even more prone to abuses,
which render many backtest inadmissible for
reasons that range from very obvious to very subtle.
On the very obvious side,
the backtest must be coded in such a way that prevents the use of tomorrow's news today.
Ideally, every data point that is being used will have a knowledge timestamp representing
the time in history that the relevant data point became available to be used for trading.
Many kinds of data become available in
the evenings after the major stock exchanges have closed.
A backtest cannot assume that data which would have been published in the evening on
day T could be used for trading on day T. Similarly,
the final price of the day,
the close price on day T cannot be used for trading on day T.
Failing to adhere to these principles will
result in a backtest that may look great but the greatness in that case would be
an illusion that is impossible to translate into the performance of real investments.
The use of technologies which did not exist in
the past can also lead to overly rosy calculations.
For example, assuming the use of an LSTM neural network in
the 1990s when no one had this technology must be regarded with some skepticism.
Today, this technology is readily available.
So at the very least,
there's likely to be more competition going forward than there could have been during
a historical period when it is very likely there was no one using the method.